Sultauate of Oman lace Ls,
Unofficial translation : Check against delivery
Statement of the Sultanate of Oman
th ‘
at the 77°" Session
of the United Nations General Assembly
Delivered by
Dr. Mohamed Al-Hassan
Ambassador and Permanent Representative
of the Sultanate of Oman to the United Nations
(Head of the Omani Delegation to the 77'" Session)
New York
26 September 2022
Permanent Mission of the Sultanate of Oman to the United Nations
3 Dag Hammarskjéld Plaza 305 East 47° Street, 12° Floor, New York, NY 10017 Tel: (212) 355-3505 Fax: (212) 644-0070
 Excellency, President Csaba Korosi,

At the outset, it gives me great pleasure to extend our heartfelt congratulations to

you and your country, the Republic of Hungary, on your election as President of the

Seventy-Seventh session of the United Nations General Assembly.

The delegation of the Sultanate of Oman would like to reassure of its readiness to

work with you and other delegations to ensure successful deliberations and

conclusions of the work of this session.

Let us not to remiss this opportunity without extending our appreciations to your

predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Abdullah Shahid, for his efforts while presiding

over the work of the previous session.

The Sultanate of Oman reiterates its commendations to His Excellency the

Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Antonio Guterres, for his tireless

efforts in advancing the noble causes of the Organization, developing its work
methods, enhancing its effectiveness, and bring the United Nations closer to the
world. We would like to assure him of the Sultanate of Oman’s continued support
for his efforts to achieve justice and peace in the world.

Mr. President,

The Sultanate of Oman pursues a well-established policy which is based on a deep
and steadfast vision and a legacy drawn from its cultural heritage and history.

Therefore, it affirms the fundamentals of its foreign policy, in siding with truth and
justice, strengthening positive cooperation and bonds of friendship, and contributing
to the consolidation of international peace and security.

The Sultanate of Oman is convinced that establishing and maintaining peace in the
world is necessary for the interest of all peoples, and that it can only be preserved if
it is based on firm principles of justice and solid foundations of cooperation and
harmony among ail nations.

We call on the international community to be guided tangibly by these references,
and build partnerships between countries, in accordance with the tenets of
international law and customary legal practices, in order to achieve peaceful
coexistence and enhance cooperation and economic prosperity for all.
 Mr. President,

My country has worked and continues to exert its efforts through constructive
cooperation with all parties to achieve peace in Yemen. While the Sultanate of Oman
welcomes the extensions of the truce, it appeals to all Yemeni parties to come to
terms with the painful past and focus on formulating a promising and a better future
for their country that would preserve the unity, security and stability of Yemen, on
the basis of mutually agreed terms of reference, including the Gulf Initiative, the
outcome of the Yemeni-Yemeni Dialogue and relevant United Nations resolutions.

In this context, the Sultanate of Oman will continue supporting the efforts of the
United Nations Special Envoy to Yemen, Mr. Hans Grundberg, as well as the United
States of America’s Envoy for Yemen, Mr. Tim Lenderking, in achieving lasting
peace in Yemen through dialogue.

We also call on all Yemeni parties to engage in meaningful and serious interactions
in formulating the roadmap agreed upon by the Yemeni brothers, and in a political
process that will safeguard the sovereignty, independence, security and stability of
Yemen.

My country affirms that it will continue to provide all possible facilities and
humanitarian assistance to the various Yemeni regions and governorates without
exclusion, hoping for an international conclusion that will end the sufferings of the
brotherly people of Yemen.

Mr. President,

Solving the Palestinian question remains an essential pillar for stability in the Middle
East as the conflict has generated many crises, tensions, and acts of violence and,
therefore, we believe that the Two-State Solution, in accordance with international
resolutions and the Arab Peace Initiative, is an urgent need and a strategic necessity
to achieve lasting peace, mutual trust, and positive cooperation among all parties in
the region.

The Sultanate of Oman takes interest in the unfolding developments in Libya, Syria
and Sudan, and hopes for resolutions of differences through consensus between the
concerned political components, and consolidating the concept of a shared destiny
to achieve security and stability for these brotherly countries.
 We call on the international community to redouble its diplomatic efforts to support
peace and stability, so as to resolve the Russian-Ukrainian crisis, through dialogue
and negotiations, which are the most successful means of resolving differences, in
accordance with the principles of International Law and common human values.
Mr. President,

My country looks forward to an active participation in the Twenty-Seventh Session
of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on
Climate Change (COP-27), which will be held, next November, in Sharm El-Sheikh,
expressing our wishes to the brotherly Arab Republic of Egypt for success in hosting
this conference.

Climate change is one of the most prominent issues of our time, and we are now
facing a decisive moment. The world is in a real and difficult situation, due to the
effects of a wide-ranging challenges such as rising temperatures and catastrophic
floods, all of which threaten the food security of many countries around the world,
adapting to this new condition will be more difficult and costly, if the world did not
unite to deal with it in a radical and integrated manner.

In this regard, allow me to mention that the Sultanate of Oman has developed a
national strategy for protecting the environment and confronting climate change and
running it in partnership with the local community, civil society institutions and the
private sector, where the (National Committee for Climate Change and the
Protection of the Ozone Layer) was established, which consists of 31 Government
agencies through which adaptation plans are implemented to mitigate the effects of
climate fluctuations and contribute in reducing carbon emissions by 7% by 2030, tn
accordance with the United Nations Climate Agreement, moving towards achieving
zero-neutrality, free of greenhouse gas emissions.

My country is set on accelerating the procedures for regulating the green hydrogen
sector and encouraging investment in it, in response to global transformations
towards reducing carbon emissions and achieving the world’s aspirations for new
and multi-use energy sources. In view to the importance of strengthening this sector,
my country has established a national alliance for hydrogen, relying on our national
capabilities, with abundance of solar and wind energy resources, and the suitable
land for the establishment of these projects, in addition to the port system and
logistical support assistance based on the Sultanate of Oman’s favorable
geographical location on the map of clean energy development and its production in
the world.
 Mr. President,
My country derives the principles of equality, justice and non-discrimination among
segments of the society, from the State Statute of the Sultanate of Oman. Hence, the
Omani women contribute alongside men with their diverse political, social,
economic and cultural thoughts in building the modern State and in promoting
cooperation and harmony among all. Women in Oman are key partners in
development and an original component of society. For that reason, we are proud of
what has been achieved in the advancement of women and their valuable
contributions in the national field of action and social responsibility.
Youth also have a great role in embodying promising hope and a bright future for
comprehensive development. In that respect, my country has provided incentives
and opportunities that are fair, transparent, and equal for all.
Mr. President,
It is undoubtedly clear that the successive crises and existing conflicts have created
challenges for the United Nations system. Therefore, we call on the international
community to rebuild itself in a real sense and realistic partnership, unite ranks,
forgive obstructive lapses, and move forward with a positive vision for a more
promising future for all mankind.
In conclusion, we would like to wish this session every success in terms of hopes
and aspirations for our world. We also wish that all will enjoy interesting and
memorable moments of the World Cup to be held in brotherly State of Qatar this
coming November.
Thank you, Your Excellency, and peace be upon you all!

-End-
